---
title: PicoScenes Software End User License Agreement 
autoNumbering: true
startNumber: 14
---

**IMPORTANT-READ CAREFULLY**: This End User License Agreement ("EULA") is a legal agreement between (a) you (either an individual or a single entity) and (b) we (Dr. Zhiping Jiang) for the PicoScenes software accompanying this EULA, which includes PicoScenes software, Linux bash Script provided by PicoScenes software, PicoScenes MATLAB Toolbox, PicoScenes Python Toolbox, documentation and related academic research papers ("PICOSCENES SOFTWARE").

**By downloading, copying, installing, or using the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE, you agree to be bound by the terms of this EULA**. If you do not agree to the following terms of this EULA, you must NOT download, copy, install or use the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE.

1. LICENSE GRANT. This EULA grants you the following non-exclusive rights:

   a. Access and Use. You may download, copy, install and use the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE.

   b. Redistribution of The Generated Data or Files. You may copy, transfer, or publish the data or files that are generated by PICOSCENES SOFTWARE.
   
   c. Develope Plugins. You may develop and use PicoScenes plugins. You agree to opensource your plugins under GPLv3 license.

2. ACADEMIC CITATION. You agree to cite the following research paper if the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE is in any form used in your research activity.

   Zhiping Jiang, Tom H. Luan, Xincheng Ren, Dongtao Lv, Han Hao, Jing Wang, Kun Zhao, Wei Xi, Yueshen Xu, Rui Li, Eliminating the Barriers: Demystifying Wi-Fi Baseband Design and Introducing the PicoScenes Wi-Fi Sensing Platform, in IEEE Internet of Things Journal (IEEE IOT-J), doi: [10.1109/JIOT.2021.3104666](https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3104666).

3. DATA COLLECTION. You agree to fill and share real information about your affiliation and research team in the `PSLP_UIC` script. You agree that we collect and use statistics on selected information on your computer, including but not limited to computer hardware information, non-personal files on your computer, commands to PICOSCENES SOFTWARE, and data or files generated by the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE.

4. LIMITATIONS ON REVERSE ENGINEERING, FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS OR ALTERATION. You agree that you will not perform reverse engineering, de-compilation, or all kinds of functional analysis of the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE. You also agree that you will not rename, edit or create any derivative works from the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE.

5. SPECTRUM REGULATION. The PICOSCENES SOFTWARE is a research-purpose software. If you use PICOSCENES SOFTWARE to transmit wireless signal, it is your responsibility to make sure that you are in compliance with all laws for the country, frequency, and power levels in which the device is used. Additionally, some countries regulate reception in certain frequency bands. Again, it is your responsibility to maintain compliance with all local laws and regulations.

6. TERMINATION UPON YOUR FAILURE. **You agree that we can terminate this EULA immediately and without notice if you fail to comply with any term of this EULA.** Upon such termination, you agree that we can block your access to PICOSCENES SOFTWARE, and you also agree that we can share the details of your failure to the public for indefinite time. The shown information may include your name, your affiliation, our analysis, and the proof of your failure.

7. UPDATE OF THIS EULA. From time to time, we may change the terms of this EULA. We will notify you of such change in software changelog and documentation. Your continued use of the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE will indicate your agreement to the change.

8. DISCLAIMERS.

   a. We expressly disclaims any warranty for the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE. The PICOSCENES SOFTWARE and any related documentation is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including, without limitation, the implied warranties or merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or noninfringement. The entire risk arising out of use or performance of the PICOSCENES SOFTWARE remains with you.
   b. In no event shall we be liable for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages for computer system, communication hardware, loss of business information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of the use of or inability to use this product, even if we has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
